Statistic
MOOCs are being more modular. That is, they are moving
away from a single standard way of organizing the course. Not simply one
pathway from beginning to end. Rather, the class is broken up into separate
modules that learners can choose to interact with in a different order. It
turns out that learners are often pretty good at knowing how to use a class for
their needs. Researchers from Stanford looked at over 70 thousand learners in
14 different online courses. What did they find? Motivation predicted behavior.
If you joined a course to meet new people, odds are you posted more in the
discussion forums. If you wanted to earn a certificate, you completed more
videos and assignments. They concluded that online courses should allow for
different motivations. Making classes more modular is one way to do this. The
researchers recommended, for example, breaking up courses to allow different
users to use them differently based on their motivations. So, instead of having
one pathway through the material: lesson 1, followed by lesson 2, and so forth.
They suggested allowing for multiple pathways. A beginner may be motivated to
learn the material in sequential order. An advanced learner might just want the
course as a reference guide. Learners should be able to organize the lectures
chronologically or topically, based on their needs. Demands for modular control
drives MOOCs to become more modular.
Despite all those differences, the amount of time spent
per class is roughly the same in quarter and semester systems. That is, you
spend about the same number of hours learning introduction to statistics, for
example, if you’re at Indiana University (semester system) or the University of
Washington (quarter system). How can this be? Let’s say you’re at IU. You sign
up for your stats course. It meets Tuesdays and Thursday for an hour and 15
minutes—75 minutes—each day. You do that for 15 weeks.  You end up with about 37 hours of classroom
instruction. Semester system: 37 hours in a class. Now let’s say you’re at UW.
You sign up for the same class. It also meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but
each day it meets for over an hour and half—100 minutes—each day. You do that
for 10 weeks and you end up with about 36 hours of classroom instruction.
Quarter system: 36 hours in a class. One hour less than you would spend in the
same class in a semester system. Both classes cover the same material. One does
it in shorter classes for more weeks. One does it for longer classes in fewer
weeks. The class times is the same in both the semester and quarter system.
outline 2
I want to thank the board for inviting me here today. From
a financial standpoint, we’ve had a great couple of months. As you probably
know, there was a fantastic article on the Harrison Foundation in Canadian
Living last month. That coverage relates directly to what I want to talk about
today. How our funding is directly leading to some interesting, high profile
projects in Newfoundland and Labrador. In fact, our main project in Newfoundland
also received an additional one million dollars in funding from the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation. Harrison is having a good year. So, what I’d like to
do today is start off by giving you a picture of how our investment portfolio
is doing. Then, we’ll talk about three of our longstanding projects. I just
want to give you an update on how they’re doing. Then finally, the new stuff. I
want to talk about our new direct-investment program that partners directly
with entrepreneurs, instead of going through other agencies.